Add parameter types for file, matrix and layer (raster or vector) (#4506)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/documentation_guidelines/writing.rst

Inline Tags
-----------

> You can use tags emphasize some items.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use tags to emphasize items.
```

     :menuselection:`menu --> submenu`

* **Dialogs and Tab titles**: Labels presented as part of an interactive user
  interface including window titles, tab titles, button and option labels.

  .. code-block:: rst

     :guilabel:`title`

* **Filenames and directories**

  .. code-block:: rst

     :file:`README.rst`

> * **Icons with popup text that belongs them**

Author: ```suggestion
* **Icons with popup text**
```

.. _my_anchor:

Labels/references
-----------------

> References use anchors inside the text to create hyperlinks to sections

Author: ```suggestion
Anchors inside the text can be used to create hyperlinks to sections
```

see my_anchor_ for more information.

Notice that it will jump to the line/thing following the 'anchor'.
You do not need to use apostrophes, but you do need to have empty lines

> before and after the anchor.

Reviewer: actually the before is not a requirement; i saw places the anchor is following `.. index::` and afair, it works. not a big deal though.

> before and after the anchor.

Author: ```suggestion
after the anchor.
```

Another way to jump to the same place **from anywhere in the
documentation** is to use the ``:ref:`` role.

.. code-block:: rst

   see :ref:`my_anchor` for more information.

which will create a link with the caption instead (in this case the
title of this section!):

see :ref:`my_anchor` for more information.

So, reference 1 (my_anchor_) and reference 2 (:ref:`my_anchor`).

> Because the reference often displays a full caption, there is not really

Author: ```suggestion
Because the reference often displays a full caption, it is not really
```

   A caption: A logo I like

To avoid conflicts with other references, always begin figure

> anchors with ``_figure_`` and use terms that easily connects to the

Author: ```suggestion
anchors with ``_figure_`` and use terms that easily connect to the
```

You can reference to it like this my_drawn_table_.

> To create even more complex tables, you can use

Reviewer: I wouldn't consider list tables as complex, nor more advanced than grid tables; they are easier to maintain.

Author: What is meant by this sentence is that (the simple) list tables are easier to use for more complex tables. I will modify to clarify this.

> To create even more complex tables, you can use

Author: ```suggestion
For even more complex tables, it is easier to use ``list-table``:
```

          * Point
          * Line

The result:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 20 40
   :stub-columns: 0

   * - What
     - Purpose
     - Key word
     - Description
   * - **Test**
     - ``Useful test``
     - complexity
     - Geometry.  One of:

       * Point
       * Line

Index
-----

An index is a handy way to help the reader find information in a document.
QGIS documentation provides some essential indices.
There are a few rules that help us provide a set of indices that are really
useful (coherent, consistent and really connected to each other):

* An index should be human readable, understandable and translatable; an index can
  be made from many words but you should avoid any unneeded ``_``, ``-``...
  characters to link them i.e., ``Loading layers`` instead of ``loading_layers``
  or ``loadingLayers``.
* Capitalize only the first letter of the index unless the word has a
  particular spelling. E.g., ``Loading layers``,
  ``Atlas generation``, ``WMS``, ``pgsql2shp``.
* Keep an eye on the existing `Index list <https://docs.qgis.org/testing/en/genindex.html>`_
  in order to reuse the most convenient expression with the right spelling

>   and avoid unneccessary duplicates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and avoid unnecessary duplicates.
```

Several index tags exist in RST. You can use the inline ``:index:`` tag
within normal text:

.. code-block:: rst

   QGIS allows to load several :index:`Vector formats` supported by GDAL/OGR ...

Or you can use the ``.. index::`` block-level markup which links to the
beginning of the next paragraph. Because of the rules mentioned above, it
is recommended to use the block-level tag:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. index:: WMS, WFS, Loading layers

> It is also recommanded to use index parameters such as ``single``, ``pair``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to use index parameters such as ``single``, ``pair``
```

Author: No check before reuse... :-)

and ``see``, in order to build a more structured and interconnected index table.
See `Index generating <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#index-generating-markup>`_
for more information on index creation.

Special Comments
----------------

Sometimes, you may want to emphasize some points of the description, either to
warn, remind or give some hints to the user. In QGIS Documentation, we use reST

> special directives such as ``.. warning::``, ``.. note::`` and ``.. tip::``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
special directives such as ``.. warning::``, ``.. seealso::`, ``.. note::`` and ``.. tip::``.
```

 .. tip:: **Always use a meaningful title for tips**

    Begin tips with a title that summarizes what it is about. This helps
    users to quickly overview the message you want to give them, and
    decide on its relevance.

Code Snippets
-------------

You may also want to give examples and insert code snippets. In this case,
write the comment below a line with the ``::`` directive inserted.  For
a better rendering, especially to apply color highlighting to code according
to its language, use the code-block directive, e.g. ``.. code-block:: xml``.

> More details at `Showing code <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#showing-code-examples>`_.

Author: ```suggestion
More details at
`Showing code <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#showing-code-examples>`_.
```

-------------------

Here are some hints to create new, nice looking screenshots.

> The images should be placed in an :file:`img/` folder that is located in

Author: ```suggestion
The images should be placed in an image (:file:`img/`) folder that
```

> the same folder as the referencing :file:`.rst` file.

Author: ```suggestion
is located in the same folder as the referencing :file:`.rst` file.
```

    sudo apt autoremove appmenu-gtk appmenu-gtk3 appmenu-qt

Translated Screenshots
----------------------

> Here are somea additional hints for those that want to create screenshots for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some additional hints for those that want to create screenshots for
```

a translated user guide.
Translated images should be placed in a :file:`img/<your_language>/` folder.

> * Use the same filename as the english 'original' screenshot

Reviewer: A single item bulleted list?

Reviewer: You just remove all the other items. Any idea of what would expand it? Otherwise I would prefer to have it as a simple sentence. for me, a list is more than one element

  the ``Input layer`` as ``Layer to calculate the polygon from``.
* Indicate in the description whether the algorithm has a default shortcut in
  QGIS or supports in-place editing.
* Add images! A picture is worth a thousand words! Use :file:`.png` format and follow the general
  guidelines for documentation (see the :ref:`image` section for more info).
  Put the image file in the correct folder, i.e. the :file:`img` folder next to
  the :file:`.rst` file you are editing.
* If necessary, add links in the "See also" section that provide additional information
  about the algorithm  (e.g., publications or web-pages).  Only add the "See also"
  section if there is really something to see. As a good practice, the "See also"
  section can be filled with links to similar algorithms.
* Give clear explanation for algorithm parameters and outputs: take inspiration
  from existing algorithms.
* Avoid duplicating detailed description of algorithm options. Add this information
  in the parameter description.
* Avoid adding information about the vector geometry type in the algorithm or parameter
  description, as this information is already available
  in the parameter descriptions.

> * Add the default value of the parameter, e.g.::

Reviewer: the exampe below does not match current table structure, does it?

  String                                    ``string``                 |inputText|
  Boolean                                   ``boolean``                |checkbox|
  Folder path                               ``folder``

>   File                                      ``matrix``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  File                                      ``file``
```

>   Matrix                                    ``file``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Matrix                                    ``matrix``
```

  String                                    ``string``                 |inputText|
  Boolean                                   ``boolean``                |checkbox|
  Folder path                               ``folder``
  File                                      ``file``
  Matrix                                    ``matrix``
  Layer                                     ``layer``
  Same output type as input type            ``same as input``  
  ========================================  =========================  ====================

  |

> * Studying an existing and well documented algorithm, and copy

Reviewer: it should be either "study ..., and copy..." or "studying..., ~~and~~ copy"

> * Studying an existing and well documented algorithm, and copy

Author: ```suggestion
* Study an existing and well documented algorithm, and copy
```

  all the useful layouts.

> * If the algorithm does not provide any output, just skip that section

Reviewer: Is this followed? eg for selection algs (that do not output) don't we mention anything?

Author: I have not yet seen an algorithm that does not declare an output (it could be the input, though).
